.TH DHTNODE 1 2026-04-18
.SH NAME
.B dhtnode
- a simple OpenDHT command line node runner.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dhtnode
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR]
[\fB\-v\fR [\fB\-l\fR \fIlogfile\fR] [\fB\-L\fR]]
[\fB\-i\fR [\fB\-I\fR \fIfile\fR]]
[\fB\-c\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-k\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-m\fR \fIpassword\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-s\fR]
[\fB\-D\fR] [\fB\-U\fR] [\fB\-P\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR \fInetwork_id\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIlocal_port\fR]
[\fB\-b\fR \fIbootstrap_host\fR[:\fIport\fR]]
[\fB\-f\fR \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-S\fR \fIport\fR]
[\fB\-e\fR \fIport\fR]
[\fB\-a\fR \fIaddress\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-K\fR \fIfile\fR]
[\fB\-M\fR \fIpassword\fR]
[\fB\-C\fR \fIserver\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR \fIendpoint\fR]
[\fB\-z\fR \fIkey\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIbundleid\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs an OpenDHT node, with an interactive CLI (default) or as a daemon (with \fB'-d'\fP or \fB'-s'\fP).
Commands available in the interactive shell are:
.EX
    h, help    Print this help message.
    x, quit    Quit the program.
    log        Start/stop printing DHT logs.

    Node information:
    ll         Print basic information and stats about the current node.
    ls [key]   Print basic information about current search(es).
    ld [key]   Print basic information about currenty stored values on this
               node (or for a specific key).
    lr         Print the full current routing table of this node.

    Operations on the DHT:
    b <ip:port>            Ping potential node at given IP address/port.
    g <key>                Get values at <key>.
    l <key>                Listen for value changes at <key>.
    cl <key> <token>       Cancel listen for <token> and <key>.
    p <key> <str>          Put string value at <key>.
    pp <key> <str>         Put string value at <key> (persistent version).
    cpp <key> <id>         Cancel persistent put operation for <key> and
                           value <id>.
    s <key> <str>          Put string value at <key>, signed with our
                           generated private key.
    e <key> <dest> <str>   Put string value at <key>, encrypted for <dest>
                           with its public key (if found).
    cc                     Trigger connectivity changed signal.

    Operations with the proxy (if compiled with proxy server support):
    pst [port] <pushServer>  Start the proxy interface on port.
    psx [port]               Start the proxy SSL interface on port.
    psp [port]               Stop the proxy interface on port.

    Operations with the proxy (if compiled with proxy client support):
    stt [server_address] <device_key>  Start the proxy client.
    stp                                Stop the proxy client.
    rs  [token]                        Resubscribe to opendht.
    rp  [token]                        Inject a push notification.
.EE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Prints help and exits.
.TP
\fB\-V\fP, \fB\-\-version\fP
Prints version information and exits.
.TP
\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP
Enable verbose mode (log to stdout/stderr by default).
.TP
\fB\-l\fP \fIlogfile\fP, \fB\-\-logfile\fP \fIlogfile\fP
Write log to file instead of stdout/stderr.
.TP
\fB\-L\fP, \fB\-\-syslog\fP
Write log to syslog instead of stdout/stderr (enables verbose mode).
.TP
\fB\-i\fP, \fB\-\-identity\fP
Generate a cryptographic identity (RSA key pair and self-signed certificate)
for the node. Required to perform cryptographic operations (encrypt/sign values)
if no private key file is provided.
.TP
\fB\-I\fP \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-save\-identity\fP \fIfile\fP
Save generated identity (certificate and private key) to given file prefix.
Files are saved as \fIfile\fP and \fIfile\fP_ca.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-certificate\fP \fIfile\fP
Load identity certificate from given file. If specified, the certificate is
published on the DHT.
.TP
\fB\-k\fP \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-privkey\fP \fIfile\fP
Load identity private key from given file. Required to perform cryptographic
operations if no identity is generated.
.TP
\fB\-m\fP \fIpassword\fP, \fB\-\-privkey\-password\fP \fIpassword\fP
Password to use for private key encryption or decryption (optional).
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-daemonize\fP
Run the program in daemon mode (will fork in the background). When verbose mode
is enabled, logs to syslog by default.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP, \fB\-\-service\fP
Run the program in service mode (non\-forking daemon).
.TP
\fB\-D\fP, \fB\-\-peer\-discovery\fP
Enables multicast automatic local peer discovery.
.TP
\fB\-U\fP, \fB\-\-no\-rate\-limit\fP
Disable rate limiting (allows unlimited requests and storage).
.TP
\fB\-P\fP, \fB\-\-public\-stable\fP
Enable public stable mode.
.TP
\fB\-f\fP \fIpath\fP, \fB\-\-persist\fP \fIpath\fP
Specify a file path to persist/load the node state (routing table and values).
.TP
\fB\-n\fP \fInetwork_id\fP, \fB\-\-net\fP \fInetwork_id\fP
Specify the network id. This lets you connect to distinct networks and prevents
the merge of two different networks. Defaults to 0 (the main public network).
.TP
\fB\-p\fP \fIlocal_port\fP, \fB\-\-port\fP \fIlocal_port\fP
Use UDP port \fIlocal_port\fP for the program to bind to. If not set, will use
any available port. The default OpenDHT port for public nodes is 4222.
.TP
\fB\-b\fP \fIbootstrap_host\fP[:\fIport\fP], \fB\-\-bootstrap\fP \fIbootstrap_host\fP[:\fIport\fP]
Specify a bootstrap node address to connect to the network.
.TP
\fB\-S\fP \fIlocal_port\fP, \fB\-\-proxyserver\fP \fIlocal_port\fP
Run a REST API proxy server bound to this DHT node on HTTP port \fIlocal_port\fP.
.TP
\fB\-e\fP \fIlocal_port\fP, \fB\-\-proxyserverssl\fP \fIlocal_port\fP
Run a REST API proxy server with SSL bound to this DHT node on HTTPS port \fIlocal_port\fP.
.TP
\fB\-a\fP \fIaddress\fP, \fB\-\-proxy\-addr\fP \fIaddress\fP
Proxy server bind address.
.TP
\fB\-w\fP \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-proxy\-certificate\fP \fIfile\fP
Load proxy SSL certificate from given file.
.TP
\fB\-K\fP \fIfile\fP, \fB\-\-proxy\-privkey\fP \fIfile\fP
Load proxy SSL private key from given file.
.TP
\fB\-M\fP \fIpassword\fP, \fB\-\-proxy\-privkey\-password\fP \fIpassword\fP
Password for the proxy private key encryption or decryption (optional).
.TP
\fB\-C\fP \fIserver\fP, \fB\-\-proxyclient\fP \fIserver\fP
Run this DHT node in proxy client mode, and connect to \fIserver\fP.
.TP
\fB\-y\fP \fIendpoint\fP, \fB\-\-pushserver\fP \fIendpoint\fP
Push notification server endpoint.
.TP
\fB\-z\fP \fIkey\fP, \fB\-\-devicekey\fP \fIkey\fP
Device key for push notifications.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP \fIbundleid\fP, \fB\-\-bundleid\fP \fIbundleid\fP
Bundle ID for push notifications.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run a node using bootstrap.jami.net as a bootstrap:
.PP
.EX
dhtnode -b bootstrap.jami.net:4222
.EE
.PP
Run a node as a non-forking daemon on port 4222:
.PP
.EX
dhtnode -b bootstrap.jami.net -p 4222 -s
.EE
.PP
Run a proxy server on port 8000:
.PP
.EX
dhtnode -b bootstrap.jami.net:4222 --proxyserver 8000
.EE
.PP
Use a proxy client to connect to a proxy server:
.PP
.EX
dhtnode --proxyclient dhtproxy.jami.net:80
.EE
.SH AUTHORS
.TP
Program written by
.IP \(bu
.\}
Adrien Béraud <adrien.beraud@savoirfairelinux.com>
.TP
Man page written by
.IP \(bu
.\}
Simon Désaulniers <sim.desaulniers@gmail.com>
